docs: disaster recovery solution on cross region in single cluster (#1111)
GreptimeTeam/docs: docs/nightly/en/user-guide/operations/disaster-recovery/dr-solution-based-on-cross-region-deployment-in-single-cluster.md

# DR Solution Based on Cross-Region Deployment in a Single Cluster

## How disaster recovery works in GreptimeDB
GreptimeDB is well-suited for cross-region disaster recovery. You may have varying regional characteristics and business needs, and GreptimeDB offers tailored solutions to meet these diverse requirements.

GreptimeDB resource management involves the concept of Availability Zones (AZs). An AZ is a logical unit of disaster recovery.
It can be a Data Center (DC), a compartment of a DC. This depends on your specific DC conditions and deployment design.

In the cross region disaster recovery solutions, a GreptimeDB region is a city. When two DC are in the same region and one DC becomes unavailable, the other DC can take over the services of the unavailable DC. This is a localization strategy.

Before understanding the details of each DR solution, it is necessary to first understand the following knowledge:

> 1. The DR solution for the remote Wal component is also very important. Essentially, it forms the foundation of the entire DR solution. Therefore, for each DR solution of GreptimeDB, we will let the remote wal component in the diagram. Currently, GreptimeDB's default remote wal component is implemented based on Kafka, and other implementations will be provided in the future; however, there won't be significant differences in deployment.

Reviewer: Do we already have the DR documentation for WAL?

Author: We do not provide a standalone wal DR solution, but I have included the wal component in our own DR solution's diagram, which means it already contains enough information to tell users how to deploy wal.

2. The table of GreptimeDB: Each table can be divided into multiple partitions according to a certain range, and each partition may be distributed on different datanodes. When writing or querying, the specified node will be called according to the corresponding rules. A table's partitions might look like this:

```
Table name: T1
Table partition count: 4
    T1-1
    T1-2
    T1-3
    T1-4
 
Table name: T2
Table partition count: 3
    T2-1
    T2-2
    T2-3
```

> ### Across 2 regions, data in the same region

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Metadata across 2 regions, data in the same region
```

Both DC1 and DC2 must be able to handle all requests in extreme situations, so please ensure that sufficient resources are allocated.

Latencies:
- 2ms latency in the same region
- 30ms latency in two regions

Supports High Availability:
- A single AZ is unavailable with the same performance
- A single DC is unavailable with almost the same performance

If you want a regional-level disaster recovery solution, you can take it a step further by providing read and write services on DC3. So, the next solution is:

### Data across 2 regions

![DR-across-3dc-2region](/DR-across-3dc-2region.png)

In this solution, the data across 2 regions.

Each DC must be able to handle all requests in extreme situations, so please ensure that sufficient resources are allocated.

Latencies:
- 2ms latency in the same region
- 30ms latency in two regions

Supports High Availability:
- A single AZ is unavailable with the same performance
- A single DC is unavailable with degraded performance

If you can't tolerate performance degradation from a single DC failure, consider upgrading to the five-DC and three-region solution.

> ### Across 3 regions, data across 2 regions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Metadata across 3 regions, data across 2 regions
```

# DR Solution Based on Cross-Region Deployment in a Single Cluster

> ## How Disaster Recovery Works in GreptimeDB

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How disaster recovery works in GreptimeDB
```

> GreptimeDB is well-suited for cross-region disaster recovery. Customers may have varying regional characteristics and business needs, and GreptimeDB offers tailored solutions to meet these diverse requirements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GreptimeDB is well-suited for cross-region disaster recovery. You may have varying regional characteristics and business needs, and GreptimeDB offers tailored solutions to meet these diverse requirements.
```

> GreptimeDB resource management involves the concept of AZs (Availability Zones). An AZ is a logical unit of disaster recovery.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
GreptimeDB resource management involves the concept of Availability Zones (AZs). An AZ is a logical unit of disaster recovery.
```

> It can be a DC(Datra Center), a compartment of a DC. This depends on the customer's specific DC conditions and deployment design.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It can be a Data Center (DC), a compartment of a DC. This depends on your specific DC conditions and deployment design.
```

> A GreptimeDB region is a city. When two DC are in the same region and one DC becomes unavailable, the other DC can take over the services of the unavailable DC. This is a localization strategy.

Reviewer: maybe we need to explain this region is different from the region in the datanode. Or use an another word instead of region here.

Author: In this context, the term "region" is the easiest for everyone to understand. To avoid confusion, I did not mention the concept of GretptimeDB table region in this document.

> ### Disaster Recovery Solution: Across 2 regions, Data in the same region

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Across 2 regions, data in the same region
```

In this solution, the data is in one region (2 DCs), while the metadata across 2 regions.

DC1 and DC2 are used together to handle read and write services, while DC3 (located in region2) is a replica used to meet the majority protocol. This architecture is also called the "2-2-1" solution.

Both DC1 and DC2 must be able to handle all requests in extreme situations, so please ensure that sufficient resources are allocated.

Features:
    - 2ms latency in the same region
    - 30ms latency in two regions

Supports High Availability:
    - A single AZ is unavailable with the same performance
    - A single DC is unavailable with almost the same performance

> ![DR-across-2dc-1region](/DR-across-2dc-1region.png)

Reviewer: It is recommended to move this line to line 12. Seeing an image first will make it easier for readers to understand the content.

If you want a regional-level disaster recovery solution, you can take it a step further by providing read and write services on DC3. So, the next solution is:

> ### Disaster Recovery Solution: Data across 2 regions

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Data across 2 regions
```

In this solution, the data across 2 regions.

Each DC must be able to handle all requests in extreme situations, so please ensure that sufficient resources are allocated.

Features:
    - 2ms latency in the same region
    - 30ms latency in two regions

Supports High Availability:
    - A single AZ is unavailable with the same performance
    - A single DC is unavailable with degraded performance

> ![DR-across-3dc-2region](/DR-across-3dc-2region.png)

Reviewer: suggestion: the same as above

If you can't tolerate performance degradation from a single DC failure, consider upgrading to the five-DC and three-region solution.

### Disaster Recovery Solution: Across 3 regions, data across 2 regions

In this solution, the data across 2 regions, while the metadata across 3 regions.

Region1 and region2 are used together to handle read and write services, while region3 is a replica used to meet the majority protocol. This architecture is also called the "2-2-1" solution.

Each of the two adjacent regions must be able to handle all requests in extreme situations, so please ensure that sufficient resources are allocated.

Features:
    - 2ms latency in the same region
    - 7ms latency in two adjacent regions
    - 30ms latency in two distant regions

Supports High Availability:
    - A single AZ is unavailable with the same performance
    - A single DC is unavailable with the same performance
    - A single region(city) is unavailable with the degraded performance

> ![DR-across-5dc-2region](/DR-across-5dc-2region.png)

Reviewer: the same as above

You can take it a step further by providing read and write services on both 3 regions. So, the next solution is:
(This solution may have higher latency, so if that's unacceptable, it's not recommended.)

> 

Reviewer: missed a title here?

In this solution, the data across 3 regions.

In the event of a failure in one region, the other two regions must be able to handle all requests, so please ensure sufficient resources are allocated.

Features:
    - 2ms latency in the same region
    - 7ms latency in two adjacent regions
    - 30ms latency in two distant regions

Supports High Availability:
    - A single AZ is unavailable with the same performance
    - A single DC is unavailable with the same performance
    - A single region(city) is unavailable with degraded performance

> ![DR-across-5dc-3region](/DR-across-5dc-3region.png)

Reviewer: the same as above

# DR Solution Based on Cross-Region Deployment in a Single Cluster

## How disaster recovery works in GreptimeDB
GreptimeDB is well-suited for cross-region disaster recovery. You may have varying regional characteristics and business needs, and GreptimeDB offers tailored solutions to meet these diverse requirements.

GreptimeDB resource management involves the concept of Availability Zones (AZs). An AZ is a logical unit of disaster recovery.
It can be a Data Center (DC), a compartment of a DC. This depends on your specific DC conditions and deployment design.

> A GreptimeDB region is a city. When two DC are in the same region and one DC becomes unavailable, the other DC can take over the services of the unavailable DC. This is a localization strategy.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this document, A GreptimeDB region is a city. When two DC are in the same region and one DC becomes unavailable, the other DC can take over the services of the unavailable DC. This is a localization strategy.
```

Features:
    - 2ms latency in the same region
    - 7ms latency in two adjacent regions
    - 30ms latency in two distant regions

Supports High Availability:
    - A single AZ is unavailable with the same performance
    - A single DC is unavailable with the same performance
    - A single region(city) is unavailable with the degraded performance

You can take it a step further by providing read and write services on both 3 regions. So, the next solution is:
(This solution may have higher latency, so if that's unacceptable, it's not recommended.)

### Data across 3 regions

![DR-across-5dc-3region](/DR-across-5dc-3region.png)

In this solution, the data across 3 regions.

In the event of a failure in one region, the other two regions must be able to handle all requests, so please ensure sufficient resources are allocated.

Features:
    - 2ms latency in the same region
    - 7ms latency in two adjacent regions
    - 30ms latency in two distant regions

Supports High Availability:
    - A single AZ is unavailable with the same performance
    - A single DC is unavailable with the same performance

>     - A single region(city) is unavailable with degraded performance

Reviewer 2: It's better to add a table at the end to compare these solutions.
